Schema:
Movie ( mID, title, year, director )
English: There is a movie with ID number mID, a title, a release year, and a director.

Reviewer ( rID, name )
English: The reviewer with ID number rID has a certain name.

Rating ( rID, mID, stars, ratingDate )
English: The reviewer rID gave the movie mID a number of stars rating (1-5) on a certain ratingDate.

Q1
Find the titles of all movies directed by Steven Spielberg.

select title
from Movie
where director = 'Steven Spielberg'

Q2
Find all years that have a movie that received a rating of 4 or 5, and sort them in increasing order.

select distinct year
from Movie join Rating using(mID)
where stars >= 4
order by year asc

Q3
Find the titles of all movies that have no ratings.

select title
from Movie left join Rating using(mID)
where stars is NULL

Q4
Some reviewers didn't provide a date with their rating. Find the names of all reviewers who have ratings with a NULL value for the date.

select name
from Reviewer join Rating using(rID)
where ratingDate is NULL

Q5
Write a query to return the ratings data in a more readable format: reviewer name, movie title, stars, and ratingDate. Also, sort the data, first by reviewer name, then by movie title, and lastly by number of stars.

select name, title, stars, ratingDate
from movie join Rating using(mID) 
join Reviewer using(rID)
order by name, title,stars

Q6
For all cases where the same reviewer rated the same movie twice and gave it a higher rating the second time, return the reviewer's name and the title of the movie.

select distinct name, title
from Movie join Rating R1 using(mID)
join rating R2 using(rid,mid)
join Reviewer using(rID)
where R1.ratingDate < R2.ratingDate and R1.stars < R2.stars

Q7
For each movie that has at least one rating, find the highest number of stars that movie received. Return the movie title and number of stars. Sort by movie title.

select title, max(stars)
from Movie join Rating using(mID)
group by mID
order by title

Q8
For each movie, return the title and the 'rating spread', that is, the difference between highest and lowest ratings given to that movie. Sort by rating spread from highest to lowest, then by movie title.

select title, max(stars)-min(stars) as rating_spread
from Movie join Rating using(mID)
group by mID
order by rating_spread desc, title

Q9
Find the difference between the average rating of movies released before 1980 and the average rating of movies released after 1980. (Make sure to calculate the average rating for each movie, then the average of those averages for movies before 1980 and movies after. Don't just calculate the overall average rating before and after 1980.)

select avg(b4.avgs) - avg(aft.avgs)
from
(
	select avg(r.stars) as avgs
	from rating as r,
	(
		select mID
		from Movie as m
		where m.year < 1980
	) as b
	where b.mID = r.mID
	group by b.mID
) as b4,
(
		select avg(r.stars) as avgs
	from rating as r,
	(
		select mID
		from Movie as m
		where m.year >= 1980
	) as b
	where b.mID = r.mID
	group by b.mID
) as aft

